initial client-side local evaluation docs updates for js sdk (#947)
Amplitude-Developer-Docs/amplitude-dev-center: docs/experiment/general/evaluation/local-evaluation.md

description: Detailed information about Amplitude Experiment's local evaluation architecture, limitations, and tradeoffs.
---

> Local evaluation runs [evaluation logic](./implementation.md) on in the SDK, saving you the overhead incurred by making a network request per user evaluation. The [sub-millisecond evaluation](../performance-and-caching.md#local-evaluation) is perfect for latency-minded systems which need to be performant at scale.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Local evaluation runs [evaluation logic](./implementation.md) in the SDK, saving you the overhead incurred by making a network request per user evaluation. The [sub-millisecond evaluation](../performance-and-caching.md#local-evaluation) is perfect for latency-minded systems which need to be performant at scale.
```

## Targeting capabilities

> Because local evaluation happens outside of Amplitude, advanced targeting and identity resolution powered by Amplitude Analytics isn't supported. That said, local evaluation allows you to perform consistent bucketing with target segments, which is often enough.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Local evaluation happens outside of Amplitude, which means advanced targeting and identity resolution powered by Amplitude Analytics isn't supported. That said, local evaluation allows you to perform consistent bucketing with target segments, which is often enough.
```

![Diagram of a local evaluation SDK.](../../../assets/images/experiment/local-evaluation.drawio.svg)

> The only non-local part of local evaluation is getting flag configurations from Amplitude Experiment, but this can happen at an interval, and flags can be cached in-memory in the SDK for zero latency access.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Getting flag configurations from Amplitude Experiment happens on the server. You can configure this to happen at an interval, and Amplitude can cache flags in memory in the SDK for zero-latency access
```

@bgiori Trying to rewrite this in active voice. Is this still accurate? Mainly, is the flag retrieval interval user-configurable?

Author: Ah this sentence is a mess.

```suggestion
Local evaluation flag configurations are loaded from the server on startup and stored in memory for access prior to each evaluation.
```

!!!tip "Edge Evaluation"
    The local evaluation Node.js SDK can be run in edge worker/functions which support JavaScript and a distributed store. Contact your representative or email [experiment@amplitude.com](mailto:experiment@amplitude.com) to learn more.

### Exposure and assignment tracking

Local evaluation SDKs track evaluations differently on the client-side vs on the server-side.

- Client-side SDKs track an [**exposure event**](../exposure-tracking.md) when the user is evaluated due to a variant being accessed from the SDK.
- Server-side SDKs track an **assignment event** (if configured to do so) when a user is evaluated.

> Thus, server-side local evaluation experiments often set the Assignment event as a heuristic for Exposure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Server-side local evaluation experiments often set the Assignment event as a heuristic for Exposure.
```

## SDKs

> Local evaluation is supported by all server-side SDKs and some client-side SDKs which have local evaluation implemented.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All server-side SDKs and some client-side (which have local evaluation enabled) support local evaluation.
```
